~

                  PLAYER SELECTION SCREEN

In  Redhook's Revenge, 2 to 5  players compete against  each
other  to  see which player has accumulated  the  most  gold
doubloons when every player has finished playing.  The  five
characters  on the first screen, Bastian Blood,  Le Boucher,
Lucrecia  De Peligro, Blackbeard,  and  Poseidon the Parrot,
must be set to one of the following positions:

            -- Off    (not playing)
            -- Player (a person)
            -- Auto   (the computer)

Press the OK Button (Enter Key) after you have selected  the
players you want.


NOTE:  At  least TWO players must play against  each  other.
If you set more than three players to the "Off" position  an
error message will be displayed.


Press the Down Arrow for more, OK (Enter) to exit help . . .


HOW TO SELECT THE PLAYERS:

     MOUSE METHOD                     KEYBOARD METHOD
     ------------                     ---------------
Click the  mouse  on one of    Use  the RIGHT and LEFT arrow
the three buttons  for each    keys to select a player.  Use
player:                        the UP and DOWN arrow keys to
                               select the player's status:

                   OFF  that character doesn't play.
                PLAYER  a person plays.
                  AUTO  the computer plays.



                      LOAD SAVED GAMES

Press  the  F2  key  to display a menu  of  games  you  have
previously  saved.  To load a saved game, arrow down to  the
game you want to retrieve and press the ENTER key.  The game
will return the exact place you were at when you saved it.


Press the Down Arrow for Setup Instructions . . .

                  SETTING UP YOUR COMPUTER

Redhook's Revenge is has several user definable options:

DIALOGUE  which refers to the pirate dialogue for  automatic
players.  If you toggle this switch to "On" the pirates will
talk  to  you and their playing boards will  remain  on  the
screen  long  enough for you to read most of them.   If  you
toggle  this switch to "Off" the pirates will tell you  only
the messages that are absolutely necessary and their playing
boards will open and close almost instantly.

MUSIC  can  be toggled "On" or "Off" with the  switch  which
appears in the middle of screen.

MUSIC CARD  is detected when you first run the software  and
this  information is saved in a configuration file.  If  you
want  to change your computer's configuration,  toggle  this
switch to either "PC Speaker", "AdLib", or "Soundblaster".



Press OK (Enter) to exit help . . .

~
             INSTRUCTIONS FOR REDHOOK'S REVENGE


KEYBOARD OVERVIEW:

     Space Bar       Roll the Dice -- Take Your Turn!
     Arrow Keys      Scroll The Game Board Right / Left
     F1  Key         Help
     F2  Key         Load Saved Game
     F3  Key         Save Game
     F4  Key         New Game
     F5  Key         Look at Your Booty / Supplies
     F10 Key         Quit


HOW TO PLAY:

Two  to five players compete against each other to  see  who
can accumulate the most gold doubloons when every player has
finished  playing.   When it is your turn, the face  of  the
player have chosen to be will appear in the upper left  hand
corner of the screen.  Press the space bar to roll the  dice
and  the  computer will move your ship forward.

                                                  more . . .
HOW TO PLAY (Continued)

When your ship lands on a space, one of the following things
will happen:

   QUESTION SPACE  You  will  be  asked  a  multiple  choice
                   question  about ships, pirates,  history,
                   sailing,  or  geography.  If you  get  it
                   right,  you  will  earn  gold,   cannons,
                   supplies,  or disaster  insurance  cards.
                   These spaces usually make the  difference
                   between winning and losing the game.

   DISASTER SPACE  Something bad will happen.  You will lose
                   turns, go back (which isn't always  bad),
                   lose treasure, or lose supplies.  Certain
                   supplies  avoid certain  disasters:  rope
                   will help you get off sandbars, a compass
                   will  help  you  navigate  through   fog,
                   bales  of  cotton plug up  holes  in  the
                   bottom of your ship.  Of course, disaster
                   insurance cards cancel these disasters.


                                                  more . . .
TYPES OF SPACES ON THE GAME BOARD (Continued)

   TREASURE SPACE  Find treasure!

   MISCELLANEOUS   Buy supplies, find treasure maps,  ransom
                   hostages, buy cannons, take chances, etc.

   RAID A CITY     It is usually to your advantage to  fight
                   a city because you may win some of  their
                   gold, and the only thing you have to lose
                   is  one turn.  Hint: get as many  cannons
                   as  you  can as soon  as  possible!

   FIGHT A PLAYER  When  you land on another player's  ship,
                   you  have  the choice to  fight  for  the
                   space  or to fall back to the first  open
                   space.   If you fight, EACH PLAYER  risks
                   losing  up to half of their gold  to  the
                   other player.  Hint: get as many  cannons
                   as  you  can as soon  as  possible!   The
                   attacker always has the advantage because
                   attackers always win ties.

                                                  more . . .

FIGHTING WITH CANNONS:

It will be to your advantage to get as many cannons (maximum
of  four)  as possible.  Each time you raid a  city,  attack
another  player, or another player attacks you, here's  what
happens:

   1)  The  attacker and defender will appear on the  screen
       and Redhook will arbitrate the fight.

   2)  The  defender will roll the dice first:  one die  for
       each cannon he/she has.

   3)  Next  the  attacker will roll the dice, one  die  for
       each cannon he/she has.

   4)  Redhook  will  sort the dice on the screen  from  the
       highest   to  the  lowest  and  determine  who   won.
       ATTACKERS WIN ALL TIES.

   5)  Redhook will award any loot won to the victor, and in
       the case of a ship to ship fight, send the loser back
       to the first open space.

                                                  more . . .
FIGHTING WITH CANNONS (Continued)

Smart players watch other players closely:  It's not usually
to  your  advantage to fight another player when  they  have
landed  on  a  disaster space.   Remember,  when  you  fight
another  player,  EACH player can lose up to HALF  of  their
gold to the other player -- if you have lots of gold and few
cannons,  don't  attack  a player who has  little  gold  and
several  cannons!   On the other hand, if you  are  in  last
place, try to attack players with piles of  gold -- remember
attackers always win ties.


FOOD / WATER / RUM:

One  ration  of food, water, and rum is used on  each  turn.
Some spaces allow you to buy these items; it is up to you to
determine whether the price is fair, and how much you should
buy  when given the opportunity.  If you run out of  one  of
the  above  items, you will lose a turn,  and  Redhook  will
force you to by them at the following prices:
    Food    50  doubloons per day
    Water   30  doubloons per day
    Rum     100 doubloons per day
                                                  more . . .
OTHER SUPPLIES:

Rope,  canvas,  cotton, and a compass will all help  you  to
avoid certain disasters along the way.  You can't buy  these
items:  generally,  the only way to get these  items  is  to
answer a question space correctly.


HOSTAGES:

Sometimes  after looting ships and cities you  will  capture
hostages.   Redhook may offer ransom for your hostages  from
time to time:  it's up to you to determine whether the price
is  fair, or whether to hold out for a higher  price  later.
Hostages  which are not ransomed by the end of the game  are
worthless.


TREASURE MAPS:

Treasure  maps are either extremely valuable  or  worthless.
You won't know until you find one!


                                                  more . . .
                        A FINAL NOTE

Much  of  the  pirate's dialogue  comes  from  Robert  Louis
Stevenson's  classic novel, "Treasure Island".  Many of  the
expressions  used by the pirates in Redhook's  Revenge  such
as, "skulk", "don't stand there squalling", "lubber", "bless
me  deadlights", and "if you had the pluck of a weevil in  a
biscuit"  evolved  from life on the  sea.   The  expression,
"meaner than the son of a double Dutchman" developed because
the  Dutch were the most feared of all pirates.   There  are
hundreds  of these saying in Redhook's Revenge, and we  hope
that it enhances your pleasure in playing it.

The  factual information for Redhook's Revenge  was  derived
from the books "The Funnel of Gold" by Mendel Peterson, "The
Sack  of  Panama" and "The Treasure of  the  Concepcion"  by
Peter  Earle.  We wish to thank these scholars for their  in
depth research.

The name "Redhook" was taken from Redhook Bay on St.  Thomas
Island.   Most  of the names on the playing board,  such  as
Gallows  Point,   can be found somewhere in  the  Caribbean.
The  player's names, with the exception of  Blackbeard,  are
fictitious.
